let's look a little bit more closely
what's been going on really uh in the
last 24 hours with our senior uh
political analyst for Al jazer M Bashar
joins me again um we listened to Hass
Nala for a very long time uh basically
giving us analysis about a revision of
history as you suggested and discussed
in the previous newsour but it was right
at the end where he really talked about
what uh hesah would intend to do they'd
buy their time and they hit back when
they wanted to but Al gave us an
understanding really of the connection
between Hezbollah and Iran as well
absolutely so in terms of um
hezbollah's response to any future
scenario clearly it's steadfast in its
warning to Israel that if you widen the
war if you attack Lebanon you will pay
the price Israel will pay the price
hisbah of course is far more potent
stronger more powerful than Hamas and I
think the result for Israel would be in
fact dire if it opens another big front
uh with Lebanon though Beirut will
indeed pay a very very high price like
Gaza and we haven't heard from neither
hisbah nor from is hania their own
accounting of human suffering today or
tomorrow because the human suffering in
Gaza is just
incredible and while they are at war
with Israel I think we need to take
count of the incredible human suffering
that's going on in Palestine and that
will probably visit Lebanon if the war
widens now having said that and talking
to your point since Zena and our other
colleagues have covered the specifics of
the Lebanon Israel issue well yes we
need to talk about the
framework that Hassan nah presented with
us tonight this framing of the conflict
with Israel
the Hamas hisbah AIS as part of a larger
Regional axis under the opes or the
pinage of Iran if you will is something
that Israel is already paying attention
to is worried about and we've heard from
the Israeli defense minister saying that
Israel is in fact now waging a war on
seven fronts to their word I think most
of these fronts do not really pose much
of a danger to Israel today but Lebanon
could in the future and Yemen huthis are
kind of doing certain skirmishes there
in the Red Sea now why this framework or
his or or NASA's framing is essential
and it's a bit of a departure from the
usual because he once again underlined
[Music]
the direct relationship with
Iran and he spoke only about the axes of
resistance under the the patronage of
Iran basically neglecting indeed not
even mentioning for
once the Arab world because the axis of
Evil the AIS of the aess of resistance
is actually functioning in the Arab
world Yemen Syria Lebanon Iraq and so on
so forth right and to my mind what he
said
today could be quite disturbing to a
good number of Arab
capitals while you expect now that is
under such
genocide that the Arab world needs to
unite in order to help the situation in
Palestine but the speech from noala
today did not Bridge with the Arab world
with other other Arab countries in fact
he deepened the rift with other Arab
countries why is that important because
let's remember the past few years the
so-called Abraham Accords the
normalizations of relations between a
good number of Arab countri countries
especially in the Gulf as well as Jordan
and
Egypt have happened with Israel for fear
of
Iran in part in part again in part for
fear of Iran right so for for for Nala
to once again basically scare the other
Arab leaders by underlining the axis of
resistance as the manufacturing of Iran
that it aided that it trained that it
that it armed that it helped uh them
even produce their weapons and so on so
forth will create a certain anxiety in a
good number of Arab capitals so once
again I think what theah needs to do and
nah needs to do while he's doing
apparently things that will be commended
by Hamas and other Palestinians meaning
opening another front and relieving Gaza
from this incredible Israeli assault but
dividing the Arab world today for pro
Iran and against Iran is not helpful for
Palestine what he also sort of suggested
was that you know Hezbollah as well as
the houthis in Yemen weren't on a direct
telephone line per se to listen to
tahan's edict you know he was saying
that don't think that tahran picks up a
telephone and tells us to do this we do
this independently out of our own
Consciousness is that is that a piece of
new information a new way of looking at
the relationship between these sorts of
groups and Teran because he was saying
that the narrative that the West likes
to um present to the world is that
everybody is at Tan's beckon call and
Nala sort of overturned that absolutely
I think that's why was important it was
a bit of also Overkill a bit of an
oversell if you will but I think you
tried to reinforce the point didn't it
that's why it was so such a oversell
absolutely absolutely but that's also
because last Wednesday
the Iran revolutionary guards came out
with a statement that uh as if the FL
the AL AA flood the the attack of
October 7 was in Revenge to the
assassination of kasum slani the
occasion of today right so
in in discussing that uh memory of slani
the Iranian revolutionary God themselves
insinuated that this the act by Hamas
was not a nationalist Palestinian
resistance act but rather a revenge for
for the killing of slman so today NOA
not only said basically this is not true
already the Iranian revolutionary guard
have walked back that statement but he's
saying is while Iran arms and finances
and helps and backs all these so-called
groups of the uh of the axis of
resistance but they are in fact uh a
network that function under what we call
spin segmented polycentric ideologically
Network groups meaning they all think
basically the same they have the same
enemy the same priorities although they
are in different countries backed by the
same Regional power Iran but they are
segmented and polycentric they function
according to each of Count's National
interest the yenes the huis in Yemen the
syrians in Syria the Lebanese and
Lebanon each has their own National
prerogatives and each have its own
National leadership and they function
according to to their own National
interest not according to dictates from
Iran according to Hassan Nas it's a bit
of an oversell but interesting
Revelation nonetheless for the moment
Marin bashara thanks very much